doc(self-managed): update eks sections pod port forwarding (#6421)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/installation-methods/helm/cloud-providers/amazon/amazon-eks/terraform-setup.md

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Accessing internal infrastructure

:::warning Not recommended in production

These approaches are intended for **development and troubleshooting purposes only**.
For a production cluster, you should use a proper VPN or other secure access methods.

:::

> Some infrastructure components (like OpenSearch dashboards or Aurora PostgreSQL databases) are only accessible from inside the EKS network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some infrastructure components (like OpenSearch dashboards or Aurora PostgreSQL databases) are only accessible from inside the Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).
```

> You can use a temporary pod as a **“jumphost”** to tunnel traffic to these components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a temporary pod as a **“jump host”** to tunnel traffic to these components.
```

while both work, I found `jump host` more commonly in e.g. Wikipedia or Tailscale usage.

---

<details>

> <summary>Generic approach using a socat pod</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>Generic approach using a jump host</summary>
```

0. **Component connection details**

   | Component            | Remote Host        | Remote Port    | Local Port     |
   | -------------------- | ------------------ | -------------- | -------------- |
   | OpenSearch dashboard | `$OPENSEARCH_HOST` | 443            | 9200           |
   | Aurora PostgreSQL    | `$AURORA_ENDPOINT` | `$AURORA_PORT` | `$AURORA_PORT` |

1. **Run a socat pod to create a TCP tunnel**

   Replace `<LOCAL_PORT>`, `<REMOTE_HOST>`, and `<REMOTE_PORT>` with the component-specific values.

   ```bash
   kubectl --namespace $CAMUNDA_NAMESPACE run my-jump-pod -it \
     --image=alpine/socat \
     --tty --rm \
     --expose=true --port=<REMOTE_PORT> \
     tcp-listen:<REMOTE_PORT>,fork,reuseaddr \

>      tcp-connect:<REMOTE_HOST>:<REMOTE_PORT>

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, maybe easier to copy if it uses env vars instead?

So one could just export them to their liking without having to manually adjust the command but could just copy & paste it.

Reviewer: same comment for the other usages in local portforwarding etc.

   ```

   :::tip How it works

>    [`socat`](http://www.dest-unreach.org/socat/) (*SOcket CAT*) is a command-line tool that relays data between two network endpoints.

Reviewer: just a comment that the combo of `name` and [link](#) is not well visible.

<img width="170" height="83" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/42347a27-d526-413e-b88b-488e6b40b070" />

I think I'd have overlooked the link if I didn't see the markdown for reviewing.
